# CONTROLS: Open Data Analytics Framework

Welcome to the open-source contribution experience for Controls, our data pipeline & analytics framework! This project strives to become a core infrastructure tool within the analytics space and we appreciate every help to improve the project. Your participation in building and maintaining it directly impacts our growth trajectory - both in the community and within production adoption scenarios.

We're grateful for all contributions to this project - technical, documentation, ideas and feedback alike. Every issue reported or new feature suggested makes us even stronger. Let' make the analytics journey easier by collaborating and sharing knowledge. 

Controls values open collaboration and strives to be a welcoming environment for everyone to contribute. Your time, insight, or code are valued immensely. Thank you for being here to build a better analytical tool with our project! We encourage all contributions to this framework; no amount is too large nor too small. 	 
	
# Code of Conduct 

This is a community space for collaborative development. Please treat each individual contributor (and maintaine) with courtesy and understanding regardless of background, skill level, or experience. 

Disrespect toward others, harassment, discriminatory language or imagery, public attacks, and any disruptive or unethical behavior is not accepted. Violations will receive immediate feedback from the community and, repeat and/ or serious violations, lead to being permanently removed from this project and community access to all project repositories or services.

We believe that open and transparent communication is critical for a healthy project community. If you encounter situations that require intervention, reach out to us on [mention preferred communication platform like Gitter or Discord]. 

# Getting Started

Before contributing it is required for contributors to setup their local development environment.  The framework is designed for Linux but can be easily adapted for Mac and Windows systems.  

First you' ll require the necessary pre- requisites for development - namely python(3.8+), pip, and a virtual environment manager (venv, Conda, etc). We strongly recommend using Python venv for project dependencies. 

To create a project local repository fork the repository and create your project workspace. You can then use git to pull or clone down this local working copy using  `git clone your-forked-repo`. Once this completed create your virtual enviornment: `python3 -m venv venv`. 

Once created be sure to install our core dependencies with: `source venv/bin/activate && pip install -r requirements.txt`. After activation your local enviroment can build a test project, and run some basic diagnostics, `pytest tests`.

Finally to ensure consistency, configure the following in the IDE to enforce project code-standards `python .`. This runs through project style-guidelines ensuring consistency within code formatting across collaborators.

# How to Contribute

The following describes common avenues by which individuals and team's can assist to contribute. All forms of contribution from bug fix or feature development, or improving our test and documentation will greatly impact us in achieving long term success!

You can contribute to Controls by reporting bugs, suggesting new features, submitting pull requests with code improvements, or contributing to our comprehensive documentation. Even providing insightful comments on pull requests are extremely important! 

Feel free to reach out through the designated communication channels for suggestions and ideas prior to coding them to prevent duplicate efforts. Maintainers actively listen to proposed approaches so feel comfortable with engaging early. 

Another critical aspect often forgotten are contributing improvements and bugfixes through test cases or improving and supporting test frameworks, such as using Pytest as the project-core framework to help test project features.  This will ensure we continue identifying and solving critical areas across all components!

We appreciate and welcome contributors of all levels! Every little improvement, from a simple typo fix to a complete module re-design helps. Let us work together to create and grow an exceptional data platform tool to help others achieve analytics and reporting solutions for complex datasets. 

If unsure whether you have what it takes or what areas can use contribution just feel free to open a ticket to the maintainers with questions or ideas that would enhance our overall analytics pipeline.

Let us collaborate in a transparent, efficient, and inclusive atmosphere. Let the spirit of shared progress inspire all involved and together, create Controls!

# Reporting Bugs

Finding issues with our software, even if small are critical as our data processing frameworks need a stable core set of dependencies, to deliver high-value, scalable, analytical solution to the industry.  The more detail you give, the better it aids troubleshooting the underlying issues that may need remediation and/or updates

A minimal reproducible example demonstrating the issue (i.e. that you are able to copy/paste a minimal program with the fewest code required that triggers bug/exception), is required for us to effectively identify root-cause. Include specific environment configurations (operating system, library versions etc.) that can help reproduce this behavior to assist the team!

When describing, kindly describe expected output or action from the code-section. Include a full code snippet that reproduces issue as it will assist the development to isolate problem-cause in code or dependencies and/or configuration issues to the core.

Please file the bugs as detailed GitHub Issues in our project.  Ensure that they have detailed, informative descriptions, complete examples, version info. Use a clear and precise language to make them as straightforward as possible and easily reproducible to help with rapid problem identification.

# Suggesting Enhancements

Do you see an aspect where we can grow the capabilities to support even broader range of analytics pipelines. If so, then let the development team and maintainers learn about them and discuss implementation options

Before submitting, consider existing functionality or whether similar proposals already exist on the issue board to ensure the suggestions align well within existing project plan/design to ensure efficient use of resources. Provide detailed rationale, clear use-cases of what new or expanded functions can achieve with Controls to ensure value is added

All enhancement request is considered in relation to their complexity, feasibility and strategic goals and are ranked based on community priorities with consideration from technical debt, resources, alignment for future projects as needed by stakeholders. Prioritization may shift based on emerging needs.

Please, feel free to reach out before coding any enhancements! Reach the development team, and open a ticket describing the desired improvement including detailed motivation/use cases and expected results, this will help streamlining and collaboration and prevent conflicting approaches from emerging from various developers and ensure efficient code reuse and shared resources as needed to improve our project framework and maintainable structure over time. 

If enhancement proposal seems to require considerable effort then be aware of request being merged and integrated over extended periods of time, depending of development team workload/ priorities, resource needs.

# Pull Request Process

Follow the following instructions if contributing by writing some valuable new changes for existing codebase - whether this fixes, refactor, improvements or features and/or enhancements to support our open analytics data platform 

Always ensure code complies and adhere with our project's formatting guidelines before opening and pushing code as the process of maintaining consistency with our team and other stakeholders and ensure readability/ understandability of new code and contributions across teams as possible as we all work on this platform. This is a requirement and can be automated using precommit tools as part of your personal environment and local repository.

When preparing pull requests use meaningful branching names based on feature-names: feature/[feature-name] - this improves organization within repo-system/version history of each commit for ease maintenance by developers, or a simpler: fix/[brief description]- functionality for addressing specific bugs or critical problems that must be addressed. Use concise messages describing code and the change.
Pull Requests can and should use detailed messages with what change is introduced/fixed and reasoning for the implementation/design approach as that assists team review

All incoming Pull Request's undergo testing - automated testing using project testing-tool/ framework to identify and prevent any errors that break or damage our framework, followed by Code Reviews by Maintainers. If tests don't pass PR will not proceed for Merge, until fixes addressed all failing points/ errors in the testing.
# Coding Standards

Code style guidelines help ensure project maintainability & uniformity. The framework adheres to [Specify PEP 8](https://pep8.org/) with specific deviations documented here - for example use specific variable names for all project variables (snake_case format for naming of project) or a standard for comments to provide clarity.

Project-specific tools/configurations can further enforce project guidelines such automatic linters, static-code analyses, such that they catch errors and code mitigations. The framework leverages Black for code-formatting to auto apply code format for all contributions as possible! Be aware all commits require adherence of coding rules as they need pass code formatting/style before submission as well for quality assurance of our analytics tool platform 

Documentation is considered an important part to the codebase - so be intentional to add documentation comments as required in the new contributions to provide clear explanations for new/ updated functionality/ features. 

Project is committed and enforced type-safety for better performance with tools/ frameworks to assist and enforce such safety checks across all project code, which help maintain project health across contributors with increased clarity!
 
# Testing Guidelines

The framework's functionality requires rigorous, reliable test framework, that provides high level quality assurances for each of it. Our current test suite utilizes [pytest]https://pytest.org/, but may expand support as we add functionality

Existing testing should pass and new contributions will add testing, ensuring comprehensive/diagonostic/ coverage across code to provide high measures/ quality across codebase and functionality - to ensure no issues break/ impact current/ ongoing features

Project utilizes unit, integrations/regressions, as required and appropriate as we move to improve our project - new contributions are responsible in contributing and ensuring that new functionality has sufficient testing and diagnostic tests provided to verify its reliability! This also allows to identify and address future issues that will impact functionality. 

Tests require proper execution with automated tests using CI-integration/continuous pipeline - all commits are tested as they pass our code validation. Ensure new tests pass prior pushing changes as a PR.	

# Documentation Contributions

Well-organized/maintained docs improve onboarding & user-satisfaction - documentation should clearly model/explain all functions with appropriate details & use of cases for all functions, so contributors/ developers/users alike fully understanding project features! 

Project's primary location/storage documentation resides inside our README/ documentation directories for all users to have readily availability, but external/ additional resources and docs also exist as needed. Be sure documentation aligns closely & consistent as the framework expands

Ensure improved/edited contributions adhere & match current documentation - any updates must also align with the external documentation that users can rely to provide high value information! This also applies in documentation code-comment/ code descriptions to improve understandability as developers navigate code to find answers as well - all of them working seamlessly together for clarity and ease.	
# Commit Message Guidelines

Commit Messages play vital part in project maintenance, collaboration across developers & overall history & understanding across team. 

Use Conventional Commits for a concise description - use [commit standard guide](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) as reference point - for commit-descriptions such "feat: New data loading capability." and use prefixes/keywords like [feat] [fix] [docs] as required by the standard
Each Commit message must clearly & succinctly explain purpose/change and what issue they address and impact of commit/ fix/ addition across team - all of which is useful information/ understanding when debugging across teams

We enforce concise and informative descriptions that provide clarity for debugging as it is important to track changes, maintain historical context. Consistent message format makes history easily readable - and facilitates understanding of the evolution/development trajectory. 

Commit should not describe "work in progress/ todo's", only final commits going live to project, as this keeps our git-repo history clear of unpolished or ongoing items/tasks for better tracking of progress achieved by each contributors - this provides clarity as teams review & manage contributions for project success	

# Branching Model

Our primary model involves adhering GitFlow and uses branches/ naming conventions to maintain code-integrity across the product-cycle & project releases - to improve clarity in tracking and management of project. Maintain consistent code flow/ management as teams contribute/ maintain the open analytical project framework
The default/main-branch should represent code as-ready as is committed/ released and all features or fixes or improvements happen off main. New contributions/changes/improvements should occur using the process of branching off main- or develop (depending) - with proper tracking across branches - for version-release

New Features will require creation branches using [feature/(descriptive feature)] for clear and simple identification and purpose as developers contribute code-additions to our core implementation

For all fix-es/ bug fixes we'll use a similar structure for the feature, however to indicate purpose: [fix/(brief issue fix name)] for diagnostic purpose and clarity

Branch strategy promotes clear/ isolated work, easy tracking/ merging and facilitates rapid integration for continuous deployments & iterative development, while also reducing conflicts across teams! 

# Review Process

The Pull Requests/ Contributions go through a comprehensive, structured, and detailed Code Review Process - code will receive review to catch all possible/ potential issues that arise across development
Maintainers perform comprehensive Code reviews & provide clear guidance & feedback on contributions for all changes that are introduced - maintain team's quality assurance of overall analytical solution & framework and to prevent bugs across codebase. 

We expect feedback/ response times as fast and reasonable to help unblock team & move to integration for releases to support community/ clients as possible to meet their business & analytic- needs
After a successful Review & testing/ approval by team & QA then the changes & contribution will merge into our master-release-ready branch - where team/ QA team performs one final sanity checks and releases as possible	

# Communication Channels

We use a few primary ways in which team and maintainers communicates as project continues evolving, improving or resolving challenges/ problems for max coverage/ awareness - please choose channel based preference and needs 

Open communication with maintainers can occur over [Discord server: (provide link)] or Github discussions in repository - we encourage community to open a discussion or issue and ask any questions/ clarifications - all questions will receive response and/ feedback
We have a Slack team ([Provide a Link for Slack], optional), where more real-time discussions & support/ clarifications happen for contributors to help improve our overall analytics and data processing tools - we want community engagement across these different channels.
For critical issues please report directly using Issue Tracking within our main github - as this is central place of managing bugs or new functionality requests and helps maintain organized records - as team works towards delivering a high performing & state of analytics product for the entire ecosystem
 
# Security and Responsible Disclosure

The team takes all forms of project Security vulnerabilities incredibly important! - as security vulnerabilities & issues could impact project users/ customers and our overall analytical data platform - and it will be handled promptly/ appropriately to mitigate potential harm & risk.

If security vulnerabilities & vulnerabilities are suspected/discovered please report it in responsible, non-public way and not by posting on forums, media and etc and reach maintainers as quick & possible, as the security issue could impact many. Please provide complete detail with proof as to demonstrate impact and/or issue. 

Reach maintainers through our Github security contact form - for reporting of vulnerabilities or any form security issue as it is confidential as to allow for proper and appropriate remediation & review to address and solve all possible challenges. Security of community is paramount & we want everyone contributing/ utilizing the tool as secure possible as it scales & solve analytics needs 

# Release Process

All new product updates will have semantic-release version numbers (Major. Minor. Patch as standard) that will track/reflect new/updated releases and improvements for project, which is a standard approach - and our release cadence are aligned and scheduled based off needs
Before releasing new code-release team runs comprehensive tests and code checks and quality assessments for new code-changes & functionality updates, as this provides assurances as quality assurance - that new/changes are working & meet/ align our requirements for quality 
Releases require version tag (version# in main/ master branch and update all release-specific/versioned configuration & documentation to accurately reflect version number. All release will have a changelog updated as to track/ record history and what new improvements were deployed
New code & release deployment occurs via continuous delivery to support our users, with new release available as fast a we're capable with our build and automated CI testing pipeline and continuous testing to minimize potential conflicts

# Recognition

We acknowledge all valuable work by contributing and supporting open framework as a community! Contributors receive credits across various forms - and are acknowledged for efforts in project. This encourages more engagement from users to support our project & maintain open analytics tool

Contributers' are displayed prominently/ listed on website or Github - this shows appreciation & highlights community engagement as contributors are essential part/ driving factor across framework & community, as our project thrives

Project includes change-log that credits/ mentions individuals contributing bug fixes and features across code base, which helps to recognize work & contributions, thank them for efforts - as a way/ means that supports the project
Maintain quality - all submissions adhere project coding/testing requirements so maintain code base consistency/ standards to help project grow

# Contributor License Agreement (CLA)

If project expands/ grows in scale we might ask all contributers & maintain contributors sign off to contribute their contribution - which helps to clarify and describe the ownership and licensing details across codebase
Signing-off the CLA helps us to legally secure project - and helps prevent possible legal claims - across contributors ensures legal rights of all contributors throughout lifecycle - both project, contributors, customers - as we successfully navigate legal challenges across all stakeholders 

We will link [link to any legal docs], for contributors & stakeholders and will clarify and describe details/ rights & licenses as project evolves and needs across all areas
    
# Resources and References

For project specific project documentation - [refer our documentation](documentation/details.pdf), and follow project standards. Additional style guides [here! ](https://github.com/yourrepo/yourdoc/readme-info/code). Also refer to our helpful style/ formatting references [style reference]

Project relies heavily in community - follow best/ industry guidelines & best practices - from community - such that maintain consistent high standard of contribution as well. Encourage continued learnings from information from all channels & resources across teams
