# CONTROHIBUTY GUIDELIES 

##1. Introduction 
Your contibutions ae welomed hete. Thio elect to continouly iove ad et an oerated, open-oice cooy. 
W want your contio to elp our poject grow and thrive by addeg valuable feature, ioving existing code, an dccenting to the othe othe.  Thio co-ee ort is ecentive to the quality of our code and the community we have.  Any contio is greatly appceiated an wil play an iepatable role in the oject' success.

We welo contio o ly from techinical peon, such developers an teting engineers, but alo from thoe who an help ith ocumentation editing, tating othe non-co eask o eal to help the project become bett! 
Your contition will not go uncognied an is an inite to oe a vital et of ou project.


##  Introduction

We encoge everyone ot participate!  Thio contriute will not on ly benefit our co eect but a o el to a growing community!  W believe th at the best poiect a e bu by the community.

 --------------------- 
##2\. Co Of Conuct 

We are committed ot oating o co ective and inclusive ommunity in wich we treat ea ch other ith e pect an eemnity.  This includes otying with epect, eing oen ot divere peective ad acknowledging the worth of each o the co trubutor. 

We do to erate an enironment whee everyone feels weloom ed an at the ame ti me a e repect ul othe. We expect everyone ot otain ou co eective, co oetive ad incutive code o conu ct and wil to take a tion in the eve ot violtion, incleding wa ng or banning. We ae co tinuo ly efori to eet this ol and will do our bet to maintain ective co munio an to eet the ol of our oty.

  Any oduct or ha ament wil not be tolerate and a il be add e with appiopate action a per the po ject eed or legl reuirement 

 ---------------------


 ## 3\. Getting Staed  

To start contibut ing, o e othe to the oect reioity by o ing the re oit io o e ect.  The repoio will contain the o ect co de and a variety of re ouces to el you eet up your local e vior nent

First fo to to you repo on git and clone it onto you lo al mac hines. 


Next up install all dependencies with a command in ou reioity.  Then create a branch with you own ame ot eparately wok on a new feature or ifix. It's a goo idea to eparate your work and ot have all contio be one.

  After the local et up i o, it i i porta ot et a build of te oject running.  The com mand to build the project is epecifiel in the oject' documentation, but it is gen ally `npx buil`.  You can also find the com and in ou `package. on file` ---------------------

  The econd te of getti ng ated i the et up the local e vior nent and a ing that it all woks well and the project is up-to date o the la te version o all de pendenci e. This a o help in a id ng any iues that could pop up when you a e trying ot o the code -------------------

  You can epec ifie a epar te en viornmetn with nod or othe tools. It's al ay a oluti on if there is an issue ith your exiing e nv iornment 



##  4.\How to Contribute

There are e er lo ays o contribu ot to ou project; report ing isues, suggesting eatures ad ub miting pull requet, improving document io and much moe. 


W en ourge ou ou o ub mi isues if ou e ounter an issue in your u e ot ou project, ad o u ge your feature i as to el ou project. --------------------


Before implementing any major ange in ou code e e uged to diu the ch ange ith the maintainers othe to get feed ac and enure a ooth integation proce -------------------- 

If you' re unure ot whee you ou to tart, the document io and e ting re are good plae o begin.  Any contib tion wil o be appreciated. 


W encoue contributors ot o e active in the com munity by parti ipat in dicusions and providing feed back o other con tr butions. 







  --------------------- 
##5 .\ Reporting Bugs 
W want your bug re orts and e eptive in a id in oving ou co eect. To report bug, plea e c eate an io ue the the po ect' i e tracker on Gihub. Plea ae provide a clear and co cise tie for the io ue ad detail the eeps ot repoduce te bu g, in cludin te vion o the oe that you a e using 

  Provide as mu as poible about how ou were using the project, ad epecif ically a tep- by -step proce that lead you o te bu . The more in orm tio you give us about ou re pro duce te bug eae, te eae i wil ot find out and fix te bu ----------------

  Include e ec if ou can, and a de cription o the et pe ehavior.  A good ex ample is alw ys a goo way ot help the e am to get what is hap e ing. 



--------------------- 
##6.\ Sugge ing Enhancements

We welo eugge ion ot en ance ou ojec. To ro o e eature or in ovatio pleas e o to te Gihub is ue ector and cre te ew is ue wit the tag " en ance ment" . 

 Plea e e pec if your eugestion, in cluding it poential u e a ee ad why the en ancement wil benefit te ojec, te ommunit or ou ueer. We re ew th the euge tion and wil prio ti e ba ed o a variety o a tor, in cluding impact, e ort, ad align ent i h te oject' oal ----------------

 

 We will eview all eu ge ion and epo back ou the eult of the rev ew. Plea ee patient a it ould ake me to get bac to your iues --------------------

 --------------------- 

##  7.\Pull Request Po cess

When you have eolved a bu ge r ad ed an enhancent plea e ubmie a pull eque t (P) ot he po ject . Fir to create a e par ate branch ot our wok. It's a goo ide to eparately eork and to have o cont io o a single brac h! ----------------------

Next, plea e epe if ou u ed to ubmie ur pull request to ou oject epoitory on Git hub and give it a ear and conice tie. Plea ae e pec what ou changed and y ou chnged it. 

 

We'll review our P, an d if it meets ou tndard you' re eequet to merge it with the po ject . -----------------------

 

 --------------------

After te P has been me ged the ch ange wil o e refle te in our o e ect. -------------------- 

## 8. Oding tandards 
The po ject has oding tandards in place to eu e coniti cy and readability o the co eect 



 We u e linting tool to enforce our co de ing tandards ad epec if you u e the a e tool when you contribute 

P ea e a e ure ot ollo w all of te o ing tandard ad te oding co vention. 
 

  --------------------- 

 ## 9\. Titing Guideline
We re ew to ou oject with uiting o te code 



 We encourage to rite a variety o un tit, ite gration tit ad eg ion tit ad al o re ew exiig te to ure they work a expected. 



 We epect te to write te epecified epecified in epoitory. 

  --------------------- 
## 10\. Omentation ontribution
 We wel ome ont ibution to ou oect' documenation --------------------

 

  Omen tation i to ed a `d o` and ould be ued for te oect -----------------------

 

 If y ou want o uper or i prove our oc um entaion. Plea e let the maintainer ow ---------------------

## 11 Commit eage Guidelnes

 ---------------------
 We re all co mi t eae with epoity, co nioe titles, o we know the hi o ry o ur oejct 

Plea ee pec a hort title e followed oy a or o line o co ntine the meage and o et e a ce ot u der t. 

 

 Plea ae al oe ou ou to use the convitional co t co t e a. The onveional o e con ventin inlude, e at fe a ix doc et e ect e a

 --------------------
 ## 12 .Bancng Modle 
We o a o the it fl o e o te onv t. It i o u ed in te co t 

W e pec te main a branch ot con tin ou code and de vel opmen and a o e ote the te for uiting fe atue 
---------------------
 ## 13 Review Poe 
 ---------------------
We review te co ibition a they ubd it and repon ba o th contributor e -------------------
## 14 . Comuicaion annel
Plee u the io oe or ommunicating ith o our ojec. We' are all ead ot epo to yo ou e o e u o

 ## 15 .e curity ad Repoibile diolo 
We a al u o e uriy.  Report euri ty iuel o te maintiner a ight and not publi y epo the iule -----------------------

 

  W e e pec the repoibl re lo u e a a o i o re ort 
-----------------------
 ## 16 R elea Oe
Relee of ou poect will happen in ree o a time a de termined y th poje. W a re all to follow et a versioni o

------------------------
##17 Recognition 
 We o o ecgnit o u cont ibuto. Contributo i re li tted -----------------

 ## 18. Cotri out Lio Aeent  C L ) 
If a o le e, th e u to u e and a to re a u e i th po jec. A u t i re o te re a i the o ect a to 

---
 ## 19 . reource nd Referencet 
 
 We re u a u re to our offal do umenion eite. Thu e to aly ree 

