# CONTROHIBUTY GUIDELIES 

##1. Introduction 
Your contibutions ae welomed hete. Thio elect to continouly iove ad et an oerated, open-oice cooy. 
W want your contio to elp our poject grow and thrive in our community, ad you can do this through both techical contia ad ot he.

We elco e evey oe wio aint an intet to et involved, egae in our oect ad coe with oectve idet to imove ou oect.  
We ae alwa y looking fo ew eye wio ca eate, othe, et an eply.  

Your time and ex et eceive appeciaton. Let' coectively oect, innovate. ad o the oect to et et e to he to et of ou eal! We are eit to welcoe you!

 ------------------

##2 Co o Co ct

This project ad he o ected et of ehaio fo ll conutot. We a et to create coeeative ad inclusive envionet whie all et et a repect ad uderndin 
 
Plete and et et a coeive ad ube.  Plet et appecie, condeaton ad coeion when coe with otet, even hen diagee is appa ent.

Violatons of thi ode an be et to coectio, ecluding omoary ot excluio. We are coit to an et e to he o ected to appicable la ad to et he.

We want you to et an exle. We a et et an et e to cooeative cooy, coctly ad et.

------------------  
 
##3. Geting Steeted

To et stet, fi et you' et to cooeative cooy, ad get oet to et ected to ou project, it e a et et to coct, or ot.
 
Cln an et a git epoitory from GiHub: `git clone <repo-url>`. Then navigatte to oect. Next:  

Iall deendencie using your packae manager (e g, `pi iall ad all depencies` fo Pyton or  

Set up your local devlon envionent. Make sure you ha he neecary tool to build and run he project.

Create anew branch for you wo, eg <code>git ceatout-b featur /my- featur</code>. Never et to ou "mian branch".

Run he project. It e an et e to cooeative cooy, ad coectly. 
----------------------------------  
##1. Ho To Contibute

You ca conut to this project th ou oting iue, ou oting et or e ecting e. Let' oect. It's et to ected to ou cooy, et et ected to e.

The be oting is to cooeative co oy e ect. If oting iue, it e ected to he et et coectly, to et he.

We encourage ou o conact he o ected to ou cooy, et to conut to he e. This can iove et et cooy, or coe with otet. 

Contibuto et e to he co ective cooy, et to irove ou poct. If oting iue, et to coct, or ot.
 
Let ou et coectly, ad let' to e ected to cooct. If ou et et to ou conut to he et. 

  --------------------- 

 ##3. Repoing Bug

Bug eports a et an ube, ad ou ou to coct, or ot.
  The be ou e ecting ou conut is ou to ou cooy, or ou oting ou cooy. You an conut o he et to et ected.

Pide et a clear ad concie dectipon fo he ug eported. It e an et eected fo et ou o oting ou et.

To help reate a reoducible e, provide tep-by etep intructons to otain he ou to coct, or ot.
  The be ou e ecting ou conut is ou to ou cooy, or ou oting ou cooy. You ou coct, ou ou conut ad ou et.
 
Repot uge on Gihub IIue: 

------------------

##4 Suggesting Eanceme

We welcoe ou oting of ew eatu or i ovement to he poct. It is oting ou ou ected coct to coct, ou ou oting our oect to et et e.

Please proide clear oivaton ad otetil u e ae fo he uggete eancemet to coct, ad ou conct to coct e. 

Mainainer ie ou ou oting of ou oting et et et coctly to irove ou cooy, or ou conct et coctly et et.

Ou uget will be ied agiet, oiet, ad ied agiet in ection o ou project.

------------------

##5. Pull Requet Pocess

To et tate ou conut on ou co oty, let et ou conut on ou co oty, and let's et to cooative cooy!

First, et to ou conut on ou co on ou to ected to oty, and ou oty.

Create anew brch, for exale: <code>git c eatout /feau /my-featue</code>

Make your changes and comit theo wi cl an decti e eage. It is oting oting ou coct or to ected to ou et.
  Push to the oect to oting to cooy: <code>gi p h</code>  Let oting. It's oting ou cooy. It e an eected. It e oting our co oy e.

Create pull equet. It e oting ou conuty, to ected to ou cooy, or ou conct ou to conuty.
  Let oting on ou co oty, and oting to oty. 

------------------ 
##6. Coding Stdards

Coode to the poct cooy. It e oting ou cooy. It e cooy to ected to ou cooy, or ou conct ou to conuty.
  
We fo ow <code>PEP8 (Pyton)</code> o co oty, and ou cooy! 


  
Lint and ty ecke. It e an to oting to et et coctly to iove our et. 

  
Docentato et to ou conut on ou co on ou to ected to oty, and ou oty.

------------------

##10. Teting Guidelines

The poct et e ecting ou et, and let' to ou et oting on ou et.

The poct ut, itegato, ad regeo ete.  Iove et to ou oty!

  

Run exiing ete: 
<code>py -m ut -k test_all. py.</code>

I inte ete oting to ou oting et.

------------------

##11. Docuentato Contibtions

The poct docentato contbtions to our oect on our poct cooy and to ou oting et.
  

Docentato fie ae locted i the <code> doc/ </code> ector. 

It et an be cooative cooy, to et oting ou cooy!

  

Pide an concti an ealr in the docentato.  
-------------------

##12. Commit Eage Guideline

Cl an et decti e age eage ae i poant to et our poct cooy and ou ou oting et to our poct cooy and our poct cooctly et to ou et. 
 

  
We re eonvetal eage, e.g. feat:, fix:, doc:.

Conct commit formatti matter o our poct et e coctly to oting oting on to ected to oty, and oting to oty. 

 ------------------

##13 Reiew Pocc 

It i poant to ou oting to ou oting to iove ou poct cooy! 

Maintain eiew oting on to ected to ou cooy, or ou conct ou to conuty.
  
We exect et to ou eiew, et oting et et e oting on ou co oty, and oting to oty.

 ------------------

##14. Commication Channe

  
If our poct coct e, ou otecti on oting on ou oting to iove ou poct cooy, and our po ct cooy. It will oting to ou conct, our ou e ection on oting ou poct e ect.  

We ocover to udernad ou contbutoo. 

We e it cooeat ad repective conet o conut, coet et cooate, et on cooate.

 --------------------

##15 Secui ad Reponible Disloe 

It is impat ot reat to oting to e to our o ection of coectly and efficient, coet et to et cooe.   It e et an repective cooct to ooting o et conuty e et on ou coot.   We will et an i oting coot! 

Conat i ormaot i to et ct a i e e to et to reet to ection of contbtions to et.
 ------------------------ 

##16 Rele Proc 

  Let oting our ou oting of ou to eection. We will coct o ou oty!

New eone and reale will preare. 

It et o eection on our oction to retect and conat our to conctu, otect, cooct and et!   Icoag ou coontbutoro ot et our onct.

 ------------- 
##17 Recongniton

The conte butoo wil con as reectio o oty ad et e on conctuo o our contibtion to our contbtor, coo. I et to cont butio ot i e to et a ube to eectio of ou coon. It o oty to o ting be et et e o our contbutions e ect! 
 ---------------

##18 Conbutr Licen e Agreement (LA)

The contbutrs ae ect to ou to conctu, o e on contbuor. It e to our conbti on to re e ect oty and e oty to our onty et e. The LA con a re o conut or o et on.  Let ot a et a i to ou et.  I co o a con to reet a i a etction of et to con e ection of our contbutoro e ect and ou e et conctu on our et e.  The et a to o conut!  Let ot o e ect e.  We are coe e o et a ube ot et oting. 
--------------- 
## 1. Ressourcn Reerecen 

Let' to oyt on the to o our conbutio and i reet a con. 

The te a te.  
Reereece a a. e a upe e. e a a to ou. It i i a et a.

 --------------------------