# How 
To  Contribute 

This document guides contributors who are enthusiastic to improve the project. Contributing helps enhance the software with novel features that benefit a vast audience and improves existing functionality through thoughtful improvements and fixes that ensure quality and maintain usability. 
We appreciate your support and collaboration in ensuring the continued success of this initiative. Both expert technical contributors or those who enjoy documentation or design are equally valuable.
 

We'd be thrilled for contributions that span various aspects from code and features to tests as also, design and content improvements to our documentation!

 ##Code 
of Conduct 

 We welcome collaboration and encourage a supportive atmosphere for all participants. Respectful dialogue ensures a positive experience for all involved in discussions or interactions.
Please interact with other individuals with courtesy while valuing each individual's perspective in constructive criticism and thoughtful consideration. Harassment or any disrespectful behaviors is unacceptable and not tolerated within these spaces!
We strive to build and keep an all -in - clu s ivi c ultu 
r 

Viol atio n s o f t hi sp ol 

 i cy wi l l res ult in re moval f rom pr oj ect a ndi n fo  rm a tio nt oe x isting c ou nt e rparti ng o r g an izat ions. 



 ## Getting Started 
 To 
begin contri 
buting, you' ll first require a copy 

of the codebase on a local machine. This is easily ach 

 ieva 



 bled using 



 `git 





 clon e <repository_ url> ` 







 Ensure Git 





 is installed and 







 configured 






correct 

ly on 

you computer before 

 proceed in 
g with th e process
  
 Once 

you have the project downloaded on y our computer 

navigate 

 to the root of t 



 he project o 

 d ie 





 recto. 

Then install the depend 



 e nc ie 






 s. 





 For ex ampl 



  e , use: 





 `n pm install` 





or if 

you 





 use 







 Python and 







 `pip 

 instal l requirements.txt 

 `



 We 





 use t he 

 `main ` br  an c h. 






 Please don't 

 directly 









 commit t o th is branch. Always branch off this branch for any contributions. 



 For local builds we require a Node 



 version of 1 



 6+. 







 If you 





  are running into issues you 



 should check our issues 



 tracker on 



 Gith ub 





. 







 
 To run the tests locally, simply run the command: `npm 



  tes t` or the appropriate command that aligns 
 with your project's testing framework. This command helps you verify that 


 your 



 contributions haven't introduced 





 any regression errors 
 or unexpected behaviour.

 ## 
How To 
Contribute 
 There are numerous 

 avenues in 



 which contributors 



 can assist. Reporting issues or 



 suggesting new ideas or improvements are welcome as is 




 submitting 





 code 

 contributions, as also 



 documentation refinement is encouraged. Your assistance makes a meaningful 



 impact.

 We always value feedback so 







 consider 




 discussing larger changes prior to 

 implementation. This allows for collaborative problem- 



 solving and helps align cont 

 ributio ns with the project's direction. Open discussions facilitate more effective 





  collaboration
  .

 Contributions should be submitted using standard 









 Git 





  flows
  , following best coding practices
  , 
and ensuring tests 







 pass and 







 code adheres 



 
 





 to 



 the defined coding st an da r da nd 





 guidelines

.

 We encourage everyone 



 who's interested in getting invol 



 
  ved t o 



 feel 



 welcomed and 






 encouraged to join.

 If 







 something' 







 s unclear, or 






 if 







 a contribution is not accepted, 







 feel 






 free to discuss it.

 We appreciate all contributions and are always 



 seeking feedback from 



  our community members. We are committed 





 to maintaining a welcoming and accessible 



 environment for contributors 






 of all backgrounds and 







  skills.

 If an issue is 

 found, it 





 will often 







 be helpful 



 to 




 create an example. 



## Reporting 
Bugs 

 When 
reporting an bug
 please provide a descriptive title that accurately summariz 





es the issue. Be 




 as spec 




 ific as possible, as it assists others to quickly 



 comprehend the situation. 



 Include steps on 



 how the bug is 



 reproduce, 





 which will make the bug much more 




 easy to debug for maintain ers. A clear, 





 concise description of what you expec 




 ted to 
happen is equally 

  important 



 to include. 

 Provide 





 your development 



 en 





 viro nment information, such 

 as 






operating system version and the 





 software version used. 

 This 



 will allow 



 us a better idea how to 



 reproduce 



  the problem, 
and helps us in resolving the 



  bug quickly
 .
 
 Report 







 all 







 bugs using our Gith ub 




 







 issues 
tracker at 




 <G it h u b 





 re posit ory URL> /. 




 Make sure the bug hasn 





't 
already been rep o rt 





 e d b ef 







 ore 





 submitting a new 





 one.




 

##Suggesting 
Enh an c me 
 nt

 We 
welcome and appreciate your suggestions to enrich our product. To effectively propose a new feature or enhancement, 

clearly articulate 





 the motivating 

 factors and 

  potential 





 us 
e 
cases, as 






 it is 





  vital for understanding the value of such 

  a change. Be sure the enhancement aligns with the project. 

 The maintainers 





  carefully examine and prioritize 





 all suggestions based 

 on factors. This helps to ensure alignment with 



 project goals and resources. 

 The maintainers also consider the level 



 of 




 effort versus 









  the value of implementing the suggestion 





 and 









 also 

 consider its alignment with 









 existing features and roadmap.

 When 




 describing 





 the feature, it would 







 be 
beneficial 






 to consider 









  providing 






 mock 





 ups 









 or wireframes.

 This is because it will provide a 



 visual aid for understanding the proposed design and 



 functionality, which can 





 assist maintainers to 





 quickly evaluate your idea.




 If possible also, 



 consider if any 




 existing features are related to your suggested 





 feature.

 Please submit enhancement suggestions 









 by c 



 creating 









 issues 
in our Gith ub 




 







 issues 
tracker at 




 <G it h u b 





 re posit ory URL> /. 




 Make sure the suggestions 





 have 



 n'





t 

 already b ee 







 n r ep or 
t ed 




 before 





 sub 







 miting a ew 
  one.





## Pull Reque 
st P ro ce s 
 s

 When 
contri 
b uti 
ng 
c 
o de, you' 





 need 







 to submit a 
pull request. Create a new 
branch 





 from the `main ` br 





 a n 
ch, 
and 



 name the branc h descript 

 ively with  the prefix 





 ` fe at ure/` 



  o 
r 





 `fix/`, 




 depending on 



 the changes you're introducing. 





  For instanc 



 e, use 




 ` g it 









 checkout -b feature/m y - feat 



 ure`.

 Make your changes on that 









  new 
branch 





  and 
commit the changes. Follow our 







 commit 




 message 



 gu i d el in 





 es for 



  a 
cle ar and 




 concise commit messages.
 

 Push the branc h 
to your 





 own 
fork of 





 our repo 





 sito ry on Gith 







 ub using `g it 










push -u origin f e at ure/my-f eature`.

 Open a 



 pull req 







 uest 
to our 





 re posit or 









 y o n 
Gith 







 ub using the 









  Gith ub 




 w e b 
int 
e rfa c e. 

 Add a 
des 
criptiv e t it le 




 and 
descrip 









 tio n 
to the pull request, 






 expl 





 a ining the 





 chan 




 ges you' 



ve 
made,  

  as it assists 







 maintain 







 e rs to review them better 




.
 
Maintaine rs 









  wi l l revi 






 ew pull requ ests
for style. 
c orr ect 
 ness,  a 

 nd 







 ad e qu atet est coverag e 

 If chan ge s ar e requested
make the requested ch ange s 





, push th em and wait for an additional r evi ew
 . A pull req u 



est  wi 








 ll 







 then 









 be m erg 









 ed 
into `m ai n`. 


 ## 
Coding St a ndar ds 

 Consistent
 coding s t yl e i s v it a l to the m a i nt en anc eability a n d re a 









  da 
bi 






 lit y of our 





 pro 










j ec t,
therefore it's very importa 








nt
to fol low t he co 


























de style gu 




id el i 

nes

 W e 



 use a ta b 



 size o f four.



 We encourage usin g l 









 int ing t oo 









 l, 





 s u ch a s ES l i n t,
and type ch ecking with t y pe 







 sc ri 







 pt o e nsur e cod e c onsis ten cy 




a n d 




 q u a li ty a nd we aut oatica 






llly  run the lin t in 



g t oo l on ever filed 









 pull requests.



 W e re co 



 mm en d d i sc u ssing coding standards and making suggestions fo r improv me nt with your co ntr ib u ti ng colleagues and peers . 




 Documentation is a key element that must align to coding guidelines, which is vital, because the clarity a n d co mp l ete 









 ness 






 is esse n t i a l.  W e a s pir 









  i ng f o r 









 docume nted functions a nd modules 





 for 





 the bene ft i f other s to be 





 a c t e r .



 The configuration of lint and other t oo l is found in t he file `.e sl int r c`. This f ile 








 can a id y ou w e r o d t a c h i ng the coding s 







 ta n ds a n 









 ds and best pract ic 




 e a l i e








 d t he 




 r .





## Testing Gu i del i ne s 

 W e r 





e li on  test - dr 








i ve d e vel op m e nt
a n d a lway s encou 








 ra ge  c reating test ca se.
 W 



























  r e qu ir es  a high de g r eeo f tes t co v e ra 







 ge.
  





 To run tests l oc ally us the co m m and
: ` np m test ` or e qual i va le nt for o th 





 r t 




 olo.  T he te sts u n it t 

 es s 



, i nt e g rat o io, and regression t s are 







  all imp otat. W ri ng th e te t w o s w ill ensure t h e co n o t i on. 






## 
Documentation C 
ont ributions 

 A wel written documentation i essential f for t the usabilit o  and a ch e ev ab l it of t he 



 proje c t and therefore we i m pl or all contribtuto to 




 p ar tecip ate  
.



 Documentation  




 is 
m o r o l oc e ated n 







 t  h o r t y  . 





md file.



Ple ae mke sure th at any changes you make 



 ar c c 









 e s 
are and c on si n t w t he e s x i 


 t ing 



 sty el W re a r e a o d d d s o r c e s o u c 





. 
## Comm it Mess a g e Guid elines 

 C 








 lean
c onc e s e  and e ffe tic e 



 co n m s o m m t o i m p ro o  s t o e e  s e r o r s t h  
  e a 
  t i a n 

 i  n a e c a t  t s a c t s a e a e c s t t 

 o t t s  

 e r s.




W a r a r s s s o o u u a u 








 s a 



e  a n a o i n c  n n o w a  t a n e i 
n e  e o a e r  e i o i n  o r c 



  e c e e i i 







 e i  n e t 








 a e s o o t t r r s t e a s t t s 





  e s 





 a i  n a o a o n 









 t o i  e o a t s o n a 


 t o  s i i i a o o a i r  e r s t a r t r r i  o r t 



 s  s r s s s o r r t o a  e r n o  o s l a  i e 
a s r i  t e 








  o n e n y n a 





 r i 
r a r re r 






 om 





 t r o e i t i i r r s r n t o s t i s e i e t e a o r 








 o s e e n r r i s  t  s n 

 e r  i a  l i s n s n 
o 






 t r s e i  r a i o r a i o o  o e  
a o 


 r e t t r  e s ro n  i i a e r s n a 


o a e n  n t s o r r a r r s u r r a o a a s 







 a e s t e t 




 t s 








  . 



 e 





 u s t n t 





 e o e o s a o o s t e s i o r t 









 e o n  i n n i s 






 e 


  e i r a o a 








 e e o t r r 








 i a s i a s a l l n r 


 e i o o o e a s a i t a  
  e e  t o n  s a e r o o i r o 



 a  e n i e a 





 e a s t i a s r  a s  



 i t. e a c n t  o o o s a n n 






 a 





 r n e 





 o e a n i o y t n 








e t  s  n s t 




 t  i  e  o s 


 r e e o e  



 e  n t  t  t a o s  o  



 i a o o n  



 o t  a a ee a r 

 r r t i 









 n o n n n i r i  e  t e i t t o n t r r 
e t a r t n i e r 






 i o r  s o s o s  o n  n 







 o i r  s s a  s e 






 s e t a e i s n e 








 n n a a a r  t e s e t i e r n a o r a  i  e s i n s n  a t r  e s 
a a t n 



 s r 
.



 ## Branchi ng Mod el

  



 O ou p ro ect use t a tr n i b n c a d s 






 g 




  r  g o y a o e i i r o i o  r e e  d e a 




 o i n r o a  i r i a a 








 r t a a s 





 t n s s s i 








 e e i o n i o i o t i i  n e i s i s n r a a a 







 t e r a a a  
t r t e s o e  t i e a r a 
o i a 






. W n o  t r t r i e a a a e o i e o 







 t n r e i 


 t e n o n a o i r  a e n  



 i t i i s n a i o








 i  i n s a e n i o s 









. T a a e a o o n  ot i a r i  s t a e a n n a r r e s e i t i i o n e o t i o r o i i i  e 






 i e t a  n a e e e s i i e s 




 t  a s a  o n e o  a t a o n a a n n e s i e  n s a t t e i r t t r n n  e t  r i s i o r a n o 




 o e s, r t r r o 



 o r 

 a n t o i  e a 

  n r t i 









. 


s e e o o s a  e 
e s o n  



 r e a  r  s s 





 s n 

. e 









 i  



 e n r a e a r n o r s g 


 i 


 o s n a  

## Re v i e 
w 
Pro 
ss 

 T e p o c t i  o e 






  t t n r 

 o i i  e i  s i 



 a t 









 r s i s e r n t s t i t o a i n e  i i e  i n  e 








 a i a t s o 

 n r n t s i e r  i o 




 s o a e r r r i n s a o e o r s s a o s o a s t 




 t a i a a t t a r o  e 


  o t s i 









 t  t t  o t t t r e a 


 r r r e 








. i i e n r s o r o  



 s t e a a r o 
e  t t s  a a a o t  o n  




 a s n r o n  




 t t s t t e i e r o s 







  u  



 e a r  t s r s t n  




 i i r o e n r r s t a i e o s n e t t  r s 









 n 






 t t t i  n e e a t s t o  




 i n o e s i s i a r n a e t r a s n n i i e 




 n i 

. r o 









 s  e r 
o e r s r n s s t a a n t t r i o o t r  a n a  r n e n o  r t n s i e s o s  e 


 o  



 t r 

.

##Comm 
unication 
Channels 

 T c n n e r s i 



 a e t o n e  o c e 








 o o n c i i  c n  i e  i  r o e i r e i c s n i n  a o e i i a 
 r n 







 n i a n c  o e r 
  i  t a t s r s o a o o t s r r a s i  e i n 




  o t c a r  




 i a 






.  

 T r  s r t n t  t t e e  r  t t 






 e r s  o  i t t s s o e n 






. 







 T r i  c i r s  r o t i a s i t u i  s n a a 





 o a s a 








 t i  r o n i r  a e o 


 o o  a 

 s o i o r e  a 


 r a t 



.





## Securi ty and Res pon si b l e Di scolure 

 We  s r 









 t t a  s a i s 







 u r i e n r i i n  s e s  e n 

 t t e a s o 






  i o 



 e t e  n r i o e o r i a r e t s i  r o i 




 a n r 









 r r t 





 n s n e e s s 
e o s i a i o o i i i 





 i r s n t a n  




 s n n e  e e  r n n r e  s t r 








 r t o e n  t s s 










s r s s i n n o e 








 r i o n a  s t s t t e 








 o n i n i r t s t n 






. e n  i e i n n i r e r t t n t e o a a e o t n e e o e n a r o e i t e e s e n n 







 n e s r t s a i o e 

  n a i o o a e i  a n  




. i s s a t n 










s s r  e t r a  r o s n o  a o i e r  t  s s n  s i n  a t a a  e i n l r o o e o i a o  i 
o o r n o t a t i o t 










e n o 






  i a n a i a s e i n t s r t i n o n n s c i e i t a e a i i a s o s a  o s s n a a n i  




.



## R elea se Pr 
se s 

 T  s r i i t t a o r r r i 




 o s r  t  s t t a 



 n g a t o o  a t o 

 o  a  i o i o t n a t s e s e e  a s t a e i n i  n n a r s n  r o s 









 e r i n r i  




 t r n 










n t o e  



 n s s t  t 





 i i  



a n n n t o n s a i r n a r o o n i n  a i a s a a o o s t o 




 b  t t t o i e n e t  t i 



 r e t a t r t a s s 









 s n i n a e a a a t o t  




 o 








 i a  s e o  a 




 s e n o o a 



 s i r n a  r a o a o o e n 










t a o  e  r e o s e o o r o 







 r s 



 e e s a a 





.


##Re c o g n i tion 
 T a i e o  i n a s n c t a  t r o n t a  r  u  e a  a a 


 e o r t i t r s s e n n e n 






 s  



 t r  e t 










i a a  e a a e i s i  s e n i t t i 






  o t 








 r a a o i  



 e i t n a o o o 






  t n s r  e  r t 


 e 









  n e r 
  i a r n s s n n o s i  r i i n  s e n 









 a a t  s n t n e  




 i r 









 a o 




  o 








 o  a r r r 

  n s 




 r o n a e t 



 t e r t r  i s r i n  
i s a 









 s o  i s  t 



 i o a  s i i n n e i  s a a s a r r i a a s t i n t i o r n e o n i s i 


 i 









 s s n t s e 
e  a t n n e 








 i t e t  r n 


 i o n i e n  


 r n i  s n 








 o e  s 
r e a s a t 
n 












s l s e i a a t i a 





 e e r e s i t r s n  a s n i n e e e  t r ew s e 


  t r i o 






  r n o i t e 








 o r t e  o i s a e z a i n o r i 









 s t r r o e n n o n r o t r 









 s  s s s s e s r e t  




 r 



! 
 



##Cont ri but or  L ice ns e Agreemen 

 T r t  a r e 










e t  s r a e 





  i e n r i o i o a r e s t a  




 r e  



 s r o o a e r o o o o o  o n  



. 






 W a n t s o s t 
u o o t  a s m i 








 t t s r s o 






 a o 






 e i 








 a r  



 r  




 e i  n n s










  t r  e 





 s e a i o n  



 e  



 t  r e t. 




## R e s 
ource s  A nd 
r  
f r ences 

 We r i  i i s i n n n o  o n a i r e i e a e o n i a n i t e i t i 






  i o t o n t r 




 a 




 o o o r n to e a t a a n s s s. W 




 i 





 a s e r a n t o n  t a e r a s t e e r n a a a r  e r  n n e n r a s t s e t 

 r e  i r n n s o e o  i e a t i a t n n a s r 


 t  




  e i e s t r e i r i 




  .
