# CONTROLS: Open Data Standardization for Urban Environments (CONTROLL-SED Contributing Guidelines) 

## 1. Introduction

This CONTRIBUTING guidelines provides essential guidance so individuals contribute to CONTROL- SED. The success of this project greatly hinges on a robust open development model and relies on collaboration and shared responsibility. 

Your contributions, both large and small are invaluable to us. This open and collaborative model will ensure CONTROLL-SED is a comprehensive standard that evolves effectively in an urban setting with real-world needs in mind

We welcome anyone with interests - developers with technical knowledge to domain experts who bring insights into how we should model the real world. Every contribution is greatly welcome, from reporting bugs to writing new functionalities or even enhancing the documentation.  Welcome aboard!

---  `###` --- 

## <ins>2</ins CodeOfConduct

The purpose of CONTRO-SED to be inclusive and welcoming to everybody. Our commitment to respect and professional courtesy are vital to foster positive collaboration.

Every member and contributor has the responsibility to treat other participants in our community, in a respectful manner and avoid abusive behavior or discrimination. Disrespectful comments or behaviors are not permitted, this include bullying or any sort of offensive conduct.

Violations in our community' guidelines may involve warnings to removal, this depends entirely on the situation. We value a collaborative and supportive team. If you observe anything or encounter any issue, please contact the maintainers to help resolve.

--- `### ---`

## <ins>3</ins>. Getting Started 

To become a CONTRO-SED contributor, you need to setup up an environment for the project.  This will allow you to test out changes, make fixes, or add features. 

First, fork our project from GitHub and clone to your local computer. Next you must install the project' requirements using pip (e.g `pip install . -- upgrade` ) or your preferred package manager.

To create a working enviroment we suggest using a `virtual environment` using command `python3 -m venv .venv`, followed by `source .venv/bin/activate`

Now to check it works you should run command `./run_checks.sh` which is responsible for ensuring that everything runs correctly and the project meets its requirements

--- `### ---`

## <ins>4</ins>. How to Contribute 

We are grateful for any form of contributions towards CONTRO-SED development! The project welcomes a number of methods to participate. These are but not limited to the items below.

You are welcome to start from fixing bugs and submitting improvements for existing documentation and examples, and also contribute ideas by proposing improvements. We welcome contributions, large or small in their size.

If a substantial amount of change is to be added, consider discussing on the GitHub Discussions. This provides a great opportunity to refine ideas together.

Feel free to contribute code by submitting Pull Requests, we encourage contributors and welcome constructive comments and discussions on your Pull Requests

--- `### ---`

## <ins>5</ins>. Reporting Bugs 

If you come across issues and believe its is indeed a bug in the code or the backend implementation then it would greatly help for reporting bugs and creating tickets within GitHub issue section of the repo.

When describing it in details you will greatly assist with diagnosing issues and making corrections quicker with details such as reproduction steps and the current behaviour versus expected behavior. Providing the error traceback is very essential too

The bug description is essential as to ensure a good level of details are present for resolving issues quicker so it's a very useful tool for maintainers to help. We greatly encourage providing detailed logs when possible. 

--- `### ---`

## <ins>6</ins>. Suggesting Features 

The goal is to keep the project in good shape while expanding features, if you think an added enhancement would bring additional use, feel free to add suggestions on the Discussions board

The enhancement requests needs a good amount of clarity. Explain a motivation that is solid as to provide an idea on why this kind of features or functionality could improve our code 

The maintainers evaluate feature suggestions, prioritizing based on their relevance, scope, potential use cases, impact, community requests, feasibility of integration, resources for maintaining new features etc

--- `### ---`

## <ins>7</ins>. Pull Request Process 

Follow our branching conventions: Use a descriptive branch name such as `feature/my-amazing-feature`. This facilitates organization of the development. Create pull requests (PRs) for all the intended changes.

When making the commits you would be encouraged to add clear descriptive titles, such as "Fix bug related to incorrect JSON validation." This improves understanding on code and makes collaboration smoother, especially if you have other collaborators working on the project.

The code will undergo code reviews, this process aims to provide valuable constructive reviews and recommendations for changes, so make sure you actively monitor your pull requests for updates! After review you should address and resolve these comments accordingly before it get's approved

--- `### ---`

## <ins>8</ins>. Coding Standards 

Maintainability relies upon a clear coding style. We aim for clarity so follow guidelines to make this more effective

Ensure consistent formatting throughout with a four-space indentation; and keep all lines at around maximum length to around 80-100 chars and keep it consistent. Naming conventions for variable/ functions must also match

Our team uses `pylint` tool for automated coding checks for linting so you must run `pylint`. Ensure you are following style guides (such as PEP8 and/or google python coding standard guidelines ) for better code clarity and standardization.

--- `### ---`

## <ins>9</ins>. Testing Guidelines 

Before contributing to project run test command to see we don`t already cover existing functionality using commands to see tests with python `pytest`. You should also include new and improved unit tests to test all functionality added.

All contributed components are expected to pass our comprehensive testing. The team utilizes a test framework and a series of tools so all tests run seamlessly, this is done so you do not get unexpected behaviour and inconsistencies within our software 

Ensure comprehensive code coverage of 80+ %. We use pytest, which should allow developers easy access with simple configurations

--- `### ---`

## <ins>10</ins>. Documentation Contributions 

Our comprehensive user/API guides is a valuable part of our projects which must kept in check as much as our source code, therefore we expect a well kept documentation for successful adoption.

Update or correct information by making the modifications in the markdown files. Ensure all updates or documentation corrections follows standards with concise descriptions that align with project goals and principles

If your additions are non-trivial you must communicate and ask for approval by posting an open question and seeking a consensus before proceeding further for better integration and cohesion between code.

--- `### ---`

## <ins>11</ins>. Commit Message Guidelines 

Write clean descriptive titles, which provide concise description for the intended action and its context so others will understand and easily grasp. The titles needs to align on the project conventions and the project needs it in a standardized method 

Use imperative tense (start verbs e.g "fix" instead of "fixed"), for consistency with common tools for task-managers. Follow convention commit style with short prefix (`feat:` to show a new features is included) for easier tracking, filtering.

Effective message formats will enhance code maintainability in terms of readability as this helps for quick identification and tracking changes

--- `### ---`

## <ins>12</ins>. Branching Model 

Project adheres with branching conventions and guidelines that ensure efficient code maintenance with the following branching conventions that will be adhered and follow:  Main is for the stable/released codebase

A develop is used for ongoing integration of features so you are able to add code to the ongoing changes

Feature/bugfix branching from 'develop'. The name convention would look like the examples shown. After merge and successful code validation, branch merges and deletes automatically
--- `### ---`

## <ins>13</ins>. Review Process 

All submitted PR will require an evaluation to assess functionality of code with quality guidelines as the standard of evaluation

Review will require the reviewers for checking if there`s any changes/bugs and whether they`re well formatted according the standards outlined earlier, after review feedback and discussion open and transparent is welcomed and appreciated
  
After PR is successful the maintainer can merge changes into development branch and release, after all code and validation checks has cleared and approved by all involved team
--- `### ---`

## <ins>14</ins>. Communication Channels 

We utilize Github Issue trackers so we would encourage using it. You are also invited to join us via discord where you are allowed open conversations. Feel free to use this space, we highly support this as the team thrives from open conversation

The discussion board serves for discussing project related questions/topics. You must be respectful in your communication, to maintain a good work enviroment 

--- `### ---`

## <ins>15</ins>. Security and Responsible Disclosure 

We take secure development and code and data privacy extremely seriously in regards with all security flaws or vulnerabilities

Responsible vulnerability reports is much preferred so don;t post on a public space instead contact us directly through github. Please include details such that they may reproduce, the steps for replication as well. We value the privacy for community

--- `### ---`

## <ins>16</ins>. Release Process 

CONTRO-SED has a defined strategy when comes to versions of releases so the changes are properly tracked

After development, version number increment is performed to reflect change/new features using SemVer. Changelog will include description and summary. After successful tagging it goes under testing before the code and releases get pushed live
--- `### ---`

## <ins>17</ins>. Recognition 

Maintain project by listing contributors within code/ README or through badge. You will find that our code will have contributor badges and we are always open with recognizing and appreciating all your effort in maintaining and supporting this team 

We value a supportive work culture, so it will reflect that through our open appreciation, by showcasing contributions on our website, blogs
--- `### ---`

## <ins>18</ins>. Contributor License Agreement (CLA) 

Contributors should understand/ agree our contributor terms. CLA is required as part for all the projects in which we contribute as it protects legal and licensing framework.

It assigns ownership of contribution to organization, this enables the use to use and share work in a flexible approach to allow it be accessible across different projects
  
A detailed document with necessary information to guide users on signing/ understanding our contributor agreements will follow. A clear process to sign the CLA
--- `### ---`

## <ins>19</ins>. Resources and References 

The resources below are valuable and is used in maintaining code for CONTRO-SED projects to assist and aid with code quality 

Python code formatting style: PEP8 -https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/

Project guidelines on development and coding: https://google.github.io/styleguide/pythons

Documentation and guides from Github :https://docs.github.com/en/developers/

