# CONTRIBUTING TO PROJECT CHRONA (Fictional Example)

## **1. Contributing: Join the Chrona Ecosystem!** 

We encourage anyone passionate about building robust event management and streaming software, like what we have here, or who simply wishes to learn more, to consider becoming a valued member of our Chrona contributor pool and supporting its long lifespan. Your contribution, be that through code, documentation, or thoughtful discussions, helps us build a community and a superior platform for data streams.

This is a community built to last and we're actively fostering a welcoming ecosystem where everyone can learn, build and contribute! Every contribution, whether a small bug fix or the introduction of a brand new function to the platform, brings value. Together, we can build the most powerful and accessible streaming engine possible.

We appreciate all forms of contribution, and we are especially keen on those that are related to performance optimization, scalability, and integration with modern data platforms - but really, anything you can contribute will have a place here! We encourage you to get involved, even with non programming assistance, like providing ideas or improving user feedback for existing processes. Let’s make the world of distributed processing more streamlined and more useful for users everywhere. 

## **2. Pledge as a Contributor to a Safe Environment - Read and Agree with Our Conduct**

Our top goal within our community is to maintain a friendly, inclusive, respectful and collaborative environment to help our users. As a contributor you agree to uphold our principles, where we prioritize mutual respect above everything and welcome new and returning community and software engineers. We expect all interactions, whether via GitHub or in person, to follow those core goals of a positive and respectful atmosphere for everyone involved - regardless of age, ability, background, race. 

To ensure a positive experience for every member, we expect everyone to follow the [Contributor Agreement](CONTRIBUTING AGREEMENT.md). Violation of it, like hostile behaviour, discriminatory comments will unfortunately lead us to take action, including removing a member and/or reporting to the respective legal authority, which will ultimately depend on the scale/context of it. Let's work together for a better community. 

We firmly believe a diversity of viewpoints is a core strength, and welcome different perspectives.  We are committed to building a culture of safety and inclusion, and want anyone that feels discriminated on, to speak to maintainers directly. Your contribution and well-being are what matter most, please let your opinions be heard. 

## **3. Getting Started: Set Up Your Local Environment**

First, fork the project repository! This creates a your own isolated copy that you' can make modifications, submit pull requests to and generally work from independently. Once the repository is forked, clone it locally to your computer using: `git clone <your fork url>`. It's a good practice to keep a local copy and a for of the project for your personal use and contribution workflows respectively. Make your modifications, and then submit pull requests to our central repository!   

Next, make sure you have the necessary tooling. You will ideally require Go (1.20 or later), a text editor and a Git client for tracking your work. You will also need a build tool for your environment of choice to be installed, like make, or go build, to compile the code for your specific operating system to be executable on a machine. Make sure your dependencies are correctly set up before you begin to modify the platform, to reduce any confusion later down the workflow line.

We encourage the utilization of a virtual environment manager to ensure your projects do not impact any existing installations, like `py env`, `conda`. This way your environment will remain as contained as necessary. To install the basic build dependencies for Chrona run `go mod download ` within the directory. This step will grab all of the dependencies for your local development, so the compilation will work out the box, ready for your changes!

The project utilizes a `feature branch` workflow, which is a standard for many open- source project teams. This will ensure we can track all contributions properly. Create new branches for your work by using `git checkout -b feature/<your-work>`, which will create a separate, local branch you can work on in relative isolation, and which you can easily merge into `main` after your work has been validated. 

To start running the local development, you can simply run the `make start`, which will execute the core processes of the software, so you can start to make your changes.  

Finally, familiarize yourself with existing tests, which are available via running ` make test`, which will allow you to get familiar with our test- driven development methodology before you start to change the codebase. 

## **4. How to Contribute: Making a Positive Impact** 

We welcome a variety of contributions, big or small. If you've got an idea for a new function that would add value to our users, or noticed a small bug, then we are happy for you to submit the contribution to the community, using our existing workflows. 

We encourage users to report any errors, bugs that they have seen, as it helps us to ensure a high fidelity platform. It's important to be as descriptive as you can when reporting these, so you have a high probability of being validated, allowing us to help our users more effectively. This ensures a smoother and more enjoyable end- user experience, which is what we are trying to foster in the Chrona community. This ensures a smoother and more enjoyable end- user experience.

We also appreciate suggestions for enhancements, new features or anything relating to user experience. This allows us to constantly evolve with the community and improve, as we learn what our users want out of our streaming solution. 

Submitting a pull request, with the relevant code and description, is the main mechanism by which we integrate community contributions to the codebase, and we're happy to help any contributors navigate this workflow as needed and to ensure your code gets merged as soon as possible - as long as all the guidelines below are adhered to as close as practical.

## **5. Reporting Bugs: Help us Identify and Fix** 

When you encounter a bug, please submit a clear and concise report on GitHub Issues. This is critical in making the debugging and fixing process as easy as possible.  

Be sure to include detailed steps to reproduce the bug, including the specific environment, versions installed, and relevant configuration details. Providing a small, self- contained, complete, and runnable (SSCR - a term often heard in the software industry), code example that triggers the bug is immensely helpful, if applicable!  

Also, include the full error logs that you received. Often there is valuable diagnostic information hidden in the logs, that will help us quickly track down the underlying problems - and this allows us to solve the problem as quick as possible. Please include a description of the expected behaviour, what the behaviour was, in addition to the logs and a reproducible example, if possible to provide a comprehensive view of the problem that's occurring for debugging purposes. 

## **6. Suggesting Enhancements: Drive the Future of the Project**    

We believe the best improvements come from a collaborative process.  To suggest a new enhancement, start a conversation on GitHub Discussions outlining the problem you're trying to solve or a new feature. Describe your proposed solution, and highlight the potential use cases and benefits.  

Provide detailed justification and a description of the desired functionality to make the proposal as clear as possible, and make the assessment and prioritization as efficient as possible.  Consider existing functionality, architectural implications, and potential impact on existing users, when making suggestions, and be aware of the existing scope of the project - what are the current priorities of the maintainers, for example.

Our maintainers will review your suggestion, along with other outstanding proposals - and prioritize them based on factors such as alignment with the project's roadmap, complexity, potential impact on community adoption, and available resources. You should feel comfortable suggesting changes, no matter how trivial you think your idea may appear to be, as you never know which changes can have the most impactful effect on the userbase.   

## **7. Pull Request Process: Your Path to Integration**    

To submit a contribution, first, create a branch from your fork, using `git checkout -b feature/<your-feature-name>`. This isolates all of your contributions in a separate branch, which we can then easily merge, or reject if we feel the code isn 't up to the quality of the platform.

Commit your changes with clear and concise messages, that follow conventional commit guidelines (see our Commit Message Guideline). Push your branch to your own fork and then submit a pull request to the main repo via the GitHub UI. This allows us to start reviewing the code, before we integrate your changes.

When submitting, please provide a detailed description of what's in the Pull Request, so we can easily track all the relevant context of your submission. This will make it easier to validate your work, and to merge the PR to the platform.  Ensure all tests pass ( `make test`) before submitting a PR, so you don' t create a new breaking issue, which would have to be fixed as a follow up, adding complexity and delays to the platform's development lifecycle.

Our maintain team will review the changes carefully, and provide feedback or ask questions. We welcome constructive dialogue during this process, which allows us to ensure a high quality platform, by catching all of the potential issues that could be occurring with the new changes. Once the code is approved and merged, it will be part of the next Chrona release.

## **8. Coding Standards: Writing Clean, Readable Code**

We adhere to Go coding conventions (https:// golang.org/doc/effective_go). This includes indentation, naming conventions, comment formatting, and overall code style for a cleaner codebase.  

Linting is essential to enforce these standards, so we use ` golangci-lint` (configured in `.golangci.yml`) to check code against a range of common issues, like formatting, error checking and unused code. Before you submit a pull request, run ` make lint`, this will execute `golangci -lint` on the current codebase, so we catch all of the linting issues before it gets reviewed manually. This ensures a smoother and more pleasant code- review process.

Type checks are also important and we make sure to run ` go vet`, to catch any common type mismatches, that would otherwise lead to unexpected bugs during production. 

## **9. Testing Guidelines: Ensuring Quality and Reliability**

We believe in comprehensive testing, so we encourage the writing of unit, integration and regression tests. This allows us to catch issues earlier in the workflow. 

To run existing tests, you can simply execute ` make test`, within the project directory, which validates the platform' s core functionalities. We encourage the use of a testing framework, such as ` testify` or `ginkgo`, which help make the tests readable and maintainable, and easy to validate. 

When adding new features, be sure to write unit tests to verify the correctness of your code, and ensure the platform is functioning as it's meant to be, after the new functionality has been added to the codebase. This ensures a smoother and more pleasant code- review process

## **10. Documentation Contributions: Enhancing Understanding**

Clear and comprehensive documentation is a cornerstone of a healthy project. Contribute to our documentation by updating existing guides, tutorials, or adding new sections.  

All our documentation lives in the `docs/` directory, and is written using Markdown. Make sure your edits are well-formatted, accurate, and easy to understand and that the grammar is correct. This ensures new users can learn the platform quickly, and have a positive experience using it for their streaming needs. 

## **11. Commit Message Guidelines: Clear and Informative Logs**

Well-written commit messages are essential for maintaining a clear and understandable project history. Adhere to the convention commits specification (https:// www.conventionalcommits. org/ en/ v1.0.0/) for all your commits.  

Use the following prefixes to indicate the type of change: `feat:` for new features, `fix:` for bug fixes, `docs:` for documentation, `style:` for code formatting changes, `refactor:` for code refactoring (no functional changes), `test:` for adding or modifying tests. This allows us to track what changes were made, what features were included in your contributions and how much time you have invested to make Chrona more functional! 

Concise commit messages help with understanding and tracing code evolution across the timeline.

## **12. Branching Model: Strategic Branch Management**

We follow a trunk based branching strategy, and we encourage the creation of many smaller commits instead of one massive PR! We encourage you to keep a short lifespan and to rebase regularly so there is less conflict between merges in futures pull requests!

New development should originate from `main` to maintain code clarity, as the trunk-based branch will regularly have updates, ensuring you are validating changes that work on top of what others are building - and vice versa!  We encourage all contributions to be validated before they become main stream so the community is not burdened with broken functionality or regressions due to unstable builds, and can continue their development in confidence and comfort.

## **13. Review Process: Maintaining Code Quality**

We follow a collaborative review process with at least one of the core maintainers carefully reviewing your changes as you've created. Maintainers might ask questions to understand code changes or make comments about the approach and potential side- effects on existing functions and users of Chrona. 

We expect all feedback from maintainers and users alike to be addressed promptly. Please provide thorough replies, with detailed reasoning, if disagreeing to proposed recommendations and suggestions from others so they can have context for making more educated opinions! If there were unforeseen consequences, then these are welcome and important and we encourage users to raise awareness to them.   Once the reviews are approved and all tests are passed, the maintainer merges your Pull Request, making changes to your branch a new and approved state for the project!

## **14. Communication Channels: Reach Out to the Community**

We welcome all discussion and ideas to help grow Chrona into an excellent solution available in the ecosystem for the world to adopt. You can use several mediums for discussion! 

If you want to have casual and fast- moving conversation or need a fast- response, you can try to join our ` discord server `: link goes here - it's open 24- 7, to all those wishing to contribute to the platform and help each other with any relevant questions that come to their minds during the day, which helps ensure a fast development workflow - especially with our community being so passionate to ensure quality!   If something's broken you are also able to log this directly, via Github, and you are encouraged to, and if your query doesn`t need urgent action - you can use GitHub issues directly to ask any related issues to your project that may benefit.   If your contribution has complex and long sections, then please start by engaging and initiating a GitHub discussion - which would allow a longer lifespan that can be used in future meetings as required and help track your contribution and allow maintainers a clear vision and overview to assess the quality/feasibility of this! 

## **15. Security and Responsible Disclosure: Protecting Chrona**

If you discover a potential security vulnerability in Chrona, please **do not** disclose it publicly. Contact us privately through a security dedicated e-mail or Github discussion (security). Describe the vulnerability, providing all available information about what can break the platform, what it does and what can trigger this behaviour.   

Security reports are confidential until resolved and patches have been released.  We appreciate and rely on ethical disclosures - so that security breaches and exploitation can be minimised as quickly as possible and users of the software will remain in an optimal, un- vulnerable environment for their operations across different infrastructures and cloud- setups

## **16. Release Process: Sharing the Benefits with the World**

Chrona releases follow a sematic versioning scheme: [Major.Minor.Patch] . Major represents potentially big features. minor, represents bug fix and/new functionality within a particular area. and lastly the Patch will represent security issues fixes/small fixes/optimizations of functionality and code!    

The version is managed automatically using a script within `tools`. When releases arrive it will generate release candidate tags automaitcally on Github, and automatically increment minor versions and update changelog for our user community, which we appreciate you to contribute, with detailed information! 

## **17. Recognition: Acknowledging Contributions**

We want to express the deepest appreciation and thanks for every member and contributors within the platform that have assisted and helped shaped it in the long life span! 

Every contributor's name is prominently displayed in our Contributors List in our Readme page ( `https:// github. com/ <your organisation / your Chrona >` and is credited to every Pull request that we validate in release documentation to help keep the history of changes for everyone and show appreciation.  This will encourage further involvement to grow into an incredible ecosystem that benefits many users. We want this community to grow and evolve into what its destined to become for streaming users, across every environment

## **18. Contributor License Agreement (CLA): Licensing and Ownership**

To use Chrona and/ to ensure a safe environment - you need to review and accept an external license and CLA. We do encourage this step! 

Please, before we are able to validate the code to main and ensure the community is kept at the top standard of functionality to ensure all the legal implications for contributors/owners are clear for us - and we appreciate this, and we ask you do take some time and look at them and understand our legal requirements - please refer to [here](external legal url here) to see the current state for legal aspects

## **19. Resources and References: Dive Deeper**

For coding standards refer to [golang official guidelines] and to the best- development workflows [ best code practices guide here], both which should assist on ensuring you produce top tier software, that will assist all the stakeholders, from our user- community to our platform maintainers!  Please do refer to our project docs [here to documentation](project doc link to help you learn).