# Contributing to the Performance Lab plugin

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the Performance Lab plugin! Complete documentation for getting started and contributing to the plugin is available in the [Performance Lab](https://make.wordpress.org/performance/handbook/performance-lab/) section of our [Performance Team Handbook](https://make.wordpress.org/performance/handbook/).

## Coding standards

In general, all code must follow the [WordPress Coding Standards and best practices](https://developer.wordpress.org/coding-standards/). All code in the Performance Lab plugin must follow these requirements:

- **WordPress**: As of Performance Lab v3.3.0, released July 15, 2024, the plugin's minimum WordPress version requirement is 6.5.
- **PHP**: Always match the latest WordPress version. The minimum required version right now is 7.2.

## Guidelines

- As with all WordPress projects, we want to ensure a welcoming environment for everyone. With that in mind, all contributors are expected to follow our [Code of Conduct](https://make.wordpress.org/handbook/community-code-of-conduct/).
- All WordPress projects are [licensed under the GPLv2+](/LICENSE), and all contributions to Gutenberg will be released under the GPLv2+ license. You maintain copyright over any contribution you make, and by submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to release that contribution under the GPLv2+ license.

## Use of AI Tools

You are free to use artificial intelligence (AI) tooling to contribute, but we ask that you disclose what tooling you are using and to what extent a pull request has been authored by AI. Are you using AI just as a code reviewer? Or, for the other extreme, are you using AI to write everything (e.g. "vibe coding")? It is your responsibility to review and take responsibility for what AI generates.

This repo includes an [`AGENTS.md`](./AGENTS.md) file which is a [README for agents](https://agents.md/). This can be used by tools like Cursor, Gemini CLI, GitHub Copilot coding agent, OpenAI Codex, and others. If your AI tool doesn't support `AGENTS.md` directly, you can simply create a symlink to it using the file name your tool is looking for.

## Reporting Security Issues

Please see [SECURITY.md](/SECURITY.md).
