# Contributing to tpchgen-rs

We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as
possible, if you have suggestions to improve the contributions guide feel
free to open an issue.

## Our Development Process

We follow a very standard development process, start by picking an existing issue or opening a new
one to address a problem you've found. Letting us know which issue you are working on allows us to
better track progress.

## Pull Requests

We actively welcome your pull requests.

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `main`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the standard tests and conformance tests are passing.
5. Make sure your code follows Rust best practices, address any linting issues clippy might find.
6. Open your pull request and wait for a review and approval.book.com/cla>

## Issues

When opening a new issue try and follow the issue template, there are no specific
requirements with regards to the overall format but we do like to have as much
details as possible and even better reproducible examples.

## Coding Style

Prefer following standard Rust guidelines with regards to formatting as for coding
style, [Effective Rust](https://www.lurklurk.org/effective-rust/title-page.html) is
a good resource for idiomatic code.

## License

By contributing to tpchgen-rs, you agree that your contributions will be licensed
under the LICENSE file in the root directory of this source tree.
