# CONTRIBUTING TO PROJECT CHRONA (Fictional Example)

## **1. Contributing: Join the Chrona Ecosystem!** 

We encourage anyone passionate about building robust event management and streaming software, like what we have here, or who simply wishes to learn more, to consider becoming a valued member of our Chrona contributor pool and supporting its long lifespan. Your contribution, be that through code, documentation, or thoughtful discussions, helps us build a community and a superior platform for data streams.

This is a community built to last and we're actively fostering a welcoming ecosystem where everyone can learn, build and contribute! Every contribution, whether a small bug fix or the introduction of a brand new function to the platform, brings value. Together, we can build the most powerful and accessible streaming engine possible.

We appreciate all forms of contribution, and we are especially keen on those that are related to performance optimization, scalability, and integration with modern data platforms - but really, anything you can contribute will have a place here! We encourage you to get involved, even with non programming assistance, like providing ideas or improving user feedback for existing processes. Let’s make the world of distributed processing more streamlined and more useful for users everywhere. 

## **2. Pledge as a Contributor to a Safe Environment - Read and Agree with Our Conduct**

Our top goal within our community is to maintain a friendly, inclusive, respectful and collaborative environment to help our users. As a contributor you agree to uphold our principles, where we prioritize mutual respect above everything and welcome new and returning community and software engineers. We expect all interactions, whether via GitHub or in person, to follow those core goals of a positive and respectful atmosphere for everyone involved - regardless of age, ability, background, race. 

To ensure a positive experience for every member, we expect everyone to follow the [Contributor Agreement](CONTRIBUTING AGREEMENT.md). Violation of it, like hostile behaviour, discriminatory comments will unfortunately lead us to take action, including removing a member and/or reporting to the respective legal authority, which will ultimately depend on the scale/context of it. Let's work together for a better community. 

We firmly believe a diversity of viewpoints is a core strength, and welcome different perspectives.  We are committed to building a culture of safety and inclusion, and want anyone that feels discriminated on, to speak to maintainers directly. Your contribution and well-being are what matter most, please let your opinions be heard. 

## **3. Getting Started: Set Up Your Local Environment**

First, fork the project repository! This creates a your own isolated copy that you' can make modifications, submit pull requests to and generally work from independently. Once the repository is forked, clone it locally to your computer using: `git clone <your fork url>`. It's a good practice to keep a local copy and a for of the project for your personal use and contribution workflows respectively. Make your modifications, and then submit pull requests to our central repository!   

Next, make sure you have the necessary tooling. You will ideally require Go (1.20 or later), a text editor and a Git client for tracking your work. You will also need a build tool for your environment of choice to be installed, like make, or go build, to compile the code for your specific operating system to be executable on a machine. Make sure your dependencies are correctly set up before you begin to modify the platform, to reduce any confusion later down the workflow line.

We encourage the utilization of a virtual environment manager to ensure your projects do not impact any existing installations, like `py env`, `conda`. This way your environment will remain as contained as necessary. To install the basic build dependencies for Chrona run `go mod download ` within the directory. This step will grab all of the dependencies for your local development, so the compilation will work out the box, ready for your changes!

The project utilizes a `feature branch` workflow, which is a standard for many open- source project teams. This will ensure we can track all contributions properly. Create new branches for your work by using `git checkout -b feature/<your-work>`, which will create a separate, local branch you can work on in relative isolation, and which you can easily merge into `main` after your work has been validated. 

To start running the local development, you can simply run the `make start`, which will execute the core processes of the software, so you can start to make your changes.  

Finally, familiarize yourself with existing tests, which are available via running ` make test`, which will allow you to get familiar with our test- driven development methodology before you start to change the codebase. 

## **4. How to Contribute: Making a Positive Impact** 

We welcome a variety of contributions, big or small. If you've got an idea for a new function that would add value to our users, or noticed a small bug, then we are happy for you to submit the contribution to the community, using our existing workflows. 

We encourage users to report any errors, bugs that they have seen, as it helps us to ensure a high fidelity platform. It's important to be as descriptive as you can when reporting these, so you have a high probability of being validated, allowing us to help our users more effectively. This ensures a smoother and more enjoyable end- user experience, which is what we are trying to foster in the Chrona community. This ensures a smoother and more enjoyable end- user experience.

We also appreciate suggestions for enhancements, new features or anything relating to user experience. This allows us to constantly evolve with the community and improve, as we learn what our users want out of our streaming solution. 

Submitting a pull request, with the relevant code and description, is the main mechanism by which we integrate community contributions to the codebase, and we're happy to help any contributors navigate this workflow as needed and to ensure your code gets merged as soon as possible - as long as all the guidelines below are adhered to as close as practical.

## **5. Reporting Bugs: Help us Identify and Fix** 

When you encounter a bug, please submit a clear and concise report on GitHub Issues. This is critical in making the debugging and fixing process as easy as possible.  

Be sure to include detailed steps to reproduce the bug, including the specific environment, versions installed, and relevant configuration details. Providing a small, self- contained, complete, and runnable (SSCR - a term often heard in the software industry), code example that triggers the bug is immensely helpful, if applicable!  

Also, include the full error logs that you received. Often there is valuable diagnostic information hidden in the logs, that will help us quickly track down the underlying problems - and this allows us to solve the problem as quick as possible. Please include a description of the expected behaviour, what the behaviour was, in addition to the logs and a reproducible example, if possible to provide a comprehensive view of the problem that's occurring for debugging purposes. 

## **6. Suggesting Enhancements: Drive the Future of the Project**    

We believe the best improvements come from a collaborative process.  To suggest a new enhancement, start a conversation on GitHub Discussions outlining the problem you're trying to solve or a new feature. Describe your proposed solution, and highlight the potential use cases and benefits.  

Provide detailed justification and a description of the desired functionality to make the proposal as clear as possible, and make the assessment and prioritization as efficient as possible.  Consider existing functionality, architectural implications, and potential impact on existing users, when making suggestions, and be aware of the existing scope of the project - what are the current priorities of the maintainers, for example.

Our maintainers will review your suggestion, along with other outstanding proposals - and prioritize them based on factors such as alignment with the project's roadmap, complexity, potential impact on community adoption, and available resources. You should feel comfortable suggesting changes, no matter how trivial you think your idea may appear to be, as you never know which changes can have the most impactful effect on the userbase.   

## **7. Pull Request Process: Your Path to Integration**    

To submit a contribution, first, create a branch from your fork, using `git checkout -b feature/<your-feature-name>`. This isolates all of your contributions in a separate branch, which we can then easily merge, or reject if we feel the code isn 't up to the quality of the platform.

Commit your changes with clear and concise messages, that follow conventional commit guidelines (see our Commit Message Guideline). Push your branch to your own fork and then submit a pull request to the main repo via the GitHub UI. This allows us to start reviewing the code, before we integrate your changes.

When submitting, please provide a detailed description of what's in the Pull Request, so we can easily track all the relevant context of your submission. This will make it easier to validate your work, and to merge the PR to the platform.  Ensure all tests pass ( `make test`) before submitting a PR, so you don' t create a new breaking issue, which would have to be fixed as a follow up, adding complexity and delays to the platform's development lifecycle.

Our maintain team will review the changes carefully, and provide feedback or ask questions. We welcome constructive dialogue during this process, which allows us to ensure a high quality platform, by catching all of the potential issues that could be occurring with the new changes. Once the code is approved and merged, it will be part of the next Chrona release.

## **8. Coding Standards: Writing Clean, Readable Code**

We adhere to Go coding conventions (https:// golang.org/doc/effective_go). This includes indentation, naming conventions, comment formatting, and overall code style for a cleaner codebase.  

Linting is essential to enforce these standards, so we use ` golangci-lint` (configured in `.golangci.yml`) to check code against a range of common issues, like formatting, error checking and unused code. Before you submit a pull request, run ` make lint`, this will execute `golangci -lint` on the current codebase, so we catch all of the linting issues before it gets reviewed manually. This ensures a smoother and more pleasant code- review process.

Type checks are also important and we make sure to run ` go vet`, to catch any common type mismatches, that would otherwise lead to unexpected bugs during production. 

## **9. Testing Guidelines: Ensuring Quality and Reliability**

We believe in comprehensive testing, so we encourage the writing of unit, integration and regression tests. This allows us to catch issues earlier in the workflow. 

To run existing tests, you can simply execute ` make test`, within the project directory, which validates the platform' s core functionalities. We encourage the use of a testing framework, such as ` testify` or `ginkgo`, which help make the tests readable and maintainable, and easy to validate. 

When adding new features, be sure to write unit tests to verify the correctness of your code, and ensure the platform is functioning as it's meant to be, after the new functionality has been added to the codebase. This ensures a smoother and more pleasant code- review process

## **10. Documentation Contributions: Enhancing Understanding**

Clear and comprehensive documentation is a cornerstone of a healthy project. Contribute to our documentation by updating existing guides, tutorials, or adding new sections.  

All our documentation lives in the `docs/` directory, and is written using Markdown. Make sure your edits are well-formatted, accurate, and easy to understand and that the grammar is correct. This ensures new users can learn the platform quickly, and have a positive experience using it for their streaming needs. 

## **11. Commit Message Guidelines: Clear and Informative Logs**

Well-written commit messages are essential for maintaining a clear and understandable project history. Adhere to the convention commits specification (https:// www.conventionalcommits. org/ en/ v1.0.0/) for all your commits.  

Use the following prefixes to indicate the type of change: `feat:` for new features, `fix:` for bug fixes, `docs:` for documentation, `style:` for code formatting changes, `refactor:` for code refactoring (no functional changes), `test:` for adding or modifying tests. This allows us to track what changes were made, to which functionalities in a clean, organised, way and it also simplifies future maintenance of the platform,

Always write a descriptive summary after the prefix, which briefly explains the purpose of the commit, which is very useful during a debug. A single commit that encompasses one single goal makes future bugfixing more simple - don t make commits with multiple functionalities. For longer descriptions or more context you may append more details in between to give us further information

## **12. Branching Model: Keeping Our Work Organized**

We utilize a simplified Gitflow model, with a central `main` branch containing stable releases, and contributors working on separate feature branches that eventually become PR' s and merged. `main` and `develop` are reserved branches to avoid conflicts when new changes need to take place in the project lifecycle.  

Always branch from `main` to create new feature branches or bug fix branches for maximum clarity - so you will get validation and tests on your changes.

Name feature branches descriptively, e.g.,  `feature/authentication-endpoint`, which provides valuable information at a glance of the nature of your contribution, and its functionality.  Do not branch directly from other branches, such as feature/x and feature/y, always ensure they derive from the `main` repo.

## **13. Review Process: A Collaborative Approach**

Maintainers carefully review each pull request. This process ensures high- quality, stable codebase, by catching potential errors, bugs, code formatting and overall readability and quality before the changes get released, to improve platform usage

During review, we will request clarifications, offer suggestions, and ask about testing strategy, which is critical for us ensuring the code's correctness, functionality and integration capabilities into our system - to improve our existing codebase overall and reduce risk when it gets released, 

Timelines are variable - depending on the size of changes. If no activity for over one week regarding review on PR submissions then feel open to ping/bump the maintainers in the original submission for more visibility of a potential review, to ensure we do our due diligence as fast as possible and keep our workflow smooth! 

## **14. Communication Channels: Staying Connected**

You can discuss issues, share ideas, and connect with other contributors on our GitHub Discussions page, accessible at ` < link- to- github- discussions- page>`. We also encourage the creation of Slack group discussions to share your ideas on platform development. For our private users and clients that require support and more direct contact for any issues and queries, we provide a direct email and ticketing solution for your assistance at `< support email link>` . Please don not contact maintainers privately, it allows for the maintainer's team to track, access, resolve issues quickly, effectively.

## **15. Security and Responsible Disclosure: Protecting Chrona**

If you discover a potential security vulnerability in Chrona, **do not** disclose it publicly. Report it privately to the Security Team.

Email `security@chrona.io`. Providing detailed context, such as specific code versions, steps to reproduce, and impact of the issue to help the platform be as secured as it possibly can be. We'll respond within a reasonable timeframe, acknowledging receipt and working to address the vulnerability and protect our infrastructure for users everywhere!

## **16. Release Process: Sharing Improvements with the World**

New versions of Chrona are typically released on a regular cadence.  Maintainers will tag commits in `main` with semantic versioning numbers (`v1.2.3`, etc). 

After a new tag commit we then automatically proceed to generate and deploy our distribution build. We'll provide update and documentation instructions, including upgrade procedures - so the release cycle runs as seamless as possible and all existing/ returning clients stay current. Contributions may affect releases, so if there is new work on existing PR or code base please alert your reviewer and team to avoid unexpected delays during the process, so it gets included. 

## **17. Recognition: Showing Appreciation**

All contributors are acknowledged in the project README, which helps with building awareness to a greater pool of engineers and a wider circle, as you can become a known part of a platform's growth trajectory - which can lead to more collaboration as you become recognised and respected.   Contributors' names also get mentioned within a release changelog when their changes get released in a particular release. If there has been substantial contribution, it also leads to potential collaboration on our open sourced project, allowing for future growth of the platform together!  

## **18. Contributor License Agreement (CLA): Legal Matters**

By submitting a pull request, you are granting us a license to use your code in Chrona. This protects us by providing the necessary license rights required by open source, ensuring we are compliant for all usecases. We will be asking that everyone submit and follow through our existing legal documentation which allows us and users full legal license and freedom for the codebase

Please refer to our CLA agreement: `<CLA document link>` and ensure all the points are fully followed through when making changes in PR, otherwise, changes may be refused until all conditions have been followed to prevent conflicts, as this can have implications with legal requirements

## **19. Resources and References: Continued Learning**

We recommend the following resources:
* Go Language Documentation: https://golang.org/doc/
* Conventional Commits: https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/
* GitHub Flow: https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/
