# contributing guidelines

## Welcome to [Your Project]! ##

This guide outlines how to participate in [ Your Software Project] project, contributing towards our common goals. Your involvement is greatly valuable! We want you to contribute, and we are happy to see and welcome all suggestions.

[ Your Project], being an open platform, benefits immensely from contributions of any form. Your feedback in terms of issues, suggestions and code is invaluable. 

We strive to keep all contributors involved, regardless of experience levels or contributions type - technical or not is equally as valuable. Please read through the guide before beginning. Thank you for considering contributing, your efforts can make a substantial effect!

## Conduct

We aim a welcoming, respectful & supportive community. We ask each contributor to act accordingly when contributing.  Any form of discrimination, offensive remarks or aggressive behaviours is not acceptable and could lead to a ban and/or reporting to the host platforms.

Please be mindful of others when participating on our community forums and issue tracker. Constructive critiques are appreciated, but always delivered constructively to avoid damaging collaboration.  

We are here to learn from all contributors - your expertise can help grow our understanding, whilst your perspective provides a new point of views to our community. If you feel a situation requires moderation, immediately inform a member of leadership. 

## Starting

To start with your contribution, please follow the setup steps outlined in our ` README.md`. This file provides instructions for downloading dependencies and installing necessary packages for your development environment.

Before starting any major contributions, ensure that you' are working on your own local branch.  Create a new branch for each feature or fix you' intend to work on, based on the `main` branch. We suggest using a naming format that clearly defines the purpose of the branch.

Install all of needed dependencies via your terminal. Example commands may depend on your project, but often involves `npm install`, ` yarn`, ` pip install -r requirements.txt`.  After dependencies installation and before making any modifications you might need to build the software. Consult ` README.md` to check the specific build steps or use an automated build pipeline when one is configured. 

We recommend creating and activating a Python or virtual envrionment. This will prevent package conflicts and ensure consistency across development machines. 

You may need specific IDE plugins or settings to match our standards.  Check documentation to ensure your local setup can be used effectively to contribute. 

## How to Contribute

Here you can contribute various types of tasks: reporting issues (bugs or enhancements), submitting bugfixes, suggesting features, providing and improving our documentation, creating or updating tests or improving the build/ deployment processes. All contributions are welcomed, regardless of their scope or complexity, provided the contribute respects the standards outlined. 

When contributing, we highly recommend you start by searching and inspecting existing features and issues. We aim to ensure all tasks are addressed. This can save unnecessary duplicated efforts and allows contributors to build upon existing work and insights.

Consider discussing substantial changes before you begin implementation by creating a discussion in our community forums or opening a "proposal" issue. The community is more likely to agree on the proposed direction. This ensures a smoother development. It helps ensure alignment. This also facilitates collaboration and allows others to offer feedback and insights before the development is underway and to ensure alignment with overall project objectives and architectural goals.

We appreciate your commitment and effort, no matter how small or big your task is. Every contribution brings us closer to an improved and more functional software. Please be respectful for existing code standards when you make your changes. 

## Issues Reporting

When you find a bug, please check our issues list first to be sure that it does not exist already. If the problem is known or has a proposed solution then, you might find useful info there. If you are unsure, open an new issue and follow instructions described. Please provide as much detailed information as is possible.

When opening a new bug report, include a descriptive title which is easily understood. Explain what you were doing when the bug appeared ( steps to reproduction), and what you observed ( expected vs. actual result). Please add your operating system, browser, or any version information that helps. 

A reproducible code snippet is extremely invaluable to help reproduce and fix your bug effectively. Please provide a minimal, complete, and verifiable code sample that triggers the bug. This allows us to quickly isolate and verify issues.

## Suggestions Enhancement

Got a brilliant idea for a new feature or a project improvement? Fantastic ! We encourage everyone to propose enhancement. Share it with the team. Please first open a new discussion or propose new issue and share your idea.

Provide a detailed justification. Why do you think this enhancement is needed? Describe potential use cases and target audience. How does this enhance the user experience or add new value to the software? 

Maintainer review the enhancement requests and prioritize based on alignment with project goals, effort estimation and community impact. Your contribution is greatly appreciated. 

## Pull Requests

Create a new branch using the name format ` feature/my-new-feature` or ` fix/resolve-bug `. Push branch to your for repository and submit your contribution with a clear title and detailed description.

Be sure to keep your pull requests small and focus on solving a single problem or task. Large pull requests are difficult to review and merge.  Before submitting ensure the contribution passes all our coding standards as outlined further on. 

When submitting a new pull request, ensure that you include a detailed and descriptive description of the changes being made, why they are important, how they were achieved, and if they affect any existing features or functionalities. Also, make your commits as atomic and clear as is possible with good explanations. 

We will review your contributions and might request feedback.  After acceptance, your code will be re based on our code base, tested and integrated.

## Code Standards

All contributions must adhere to the style rules as outlined in our code standards document, accessible at [link to coding standard document or example repository]. This will help maintain consistency in project. 

We recommend that you enable linting to automatically flag coding violations. For Python, we use `pyl int`. For Javascript, use `eslint`. The specific linting tool and configuration should be included in a documentation document, if one exists.

All code should have proper commenting. Comments are important, but be descriptive and concise.  Avoid adding redundant documentation, and keep only what is essential. The goal is to clarify the code logic, not to re-state what is obvious. 

## Testing Guidelines

All submissions must include appropriate tests to ensure they meet our expectations. Ensure existing tests are passed before you start making any changes.

We use [test framework] for our test cases and encourage all contributors to use the same. Ensure the framework is set up according to our requirements. Consult the documentation to learn about the specifics of our frameworks. 

When introducing new functionality, write new unit and tests to cover all potential scenarios and to ensure stability after merging. Consider edge cases and failure handling during test writing. If your feature involves interactions with other components, also write integration tests. 

## Documentation Contributions

To improve our existing documentation or add missing ones, update the source files within our ` docs/` directory.  These source files are typically in Markdown.

When making documentation changes, ensure that you follow the same style guidelines that you would apply to the code documentation. Be consistent. Be clear and be descriptive. Use appropriate Markdown syntax and headings for formatting and navigation purposes to enhance the document structure and readability. 

All documentation must be accurate with proper formatting. Ensure your documentation is consistent with the existing code. If you are improving an outdated piece of documentation then ensure it is up to date. 

## Commit Message Guidelines

All commit messages shall follow these guidelines and must be descriptive and concise. Each message should start with a prefix indicating the type of change: 

- `feat:`. Add a new feature.
- `fix:`. Fix a bug or a vulnerability.
-   `docs:`. Document changes. 
- `refactor :`. Code modifications that doesn’t add or change functionality.
- `test:`. Add or change testing code. 

The message body should contain a concise description explaining the commit's rationale and any relevant details. Use an imperative sentence, beginning with the verb form "Implement", "Fix", "Add", etc. 

## Branching Model

We follow a Gitflow branching model. The `main` and `develop branches are protected and require pull requests for merging. `main` branch is used for deploying new releases. The `develop` branch contains the latest integration of the software. ` feature/` branches are created for adding new features, and ` fix/` branches resolve identified bugs.

For new features, create a new branch starting from `develop`. After the development is completed, open a pull request to merge your branch into ` develop`. If you are fixing a bug, create a new branch starting from `main` branch and open a pull request merging this branch into ` main ` branch.

## Review Process

All submissions are reviewed and approved before they are integrated into the main branches. Maintainers will carefully look at the contribution for correctness, adherence to our style guidelines, tests, and overall code quality.

We expect prompt response to feedback and be ready to adjust your solution as requested. The approval and merging is based on a consensus from our community. Please be respectful of the reviewers' opinions during review. 

## Communication Channels

For communication, join our [link to discord/slack/ forum/ email list]. You may contact us directly at [project email address]. For more urgent matters you can directly contact a project maintain at [project maintainer' email addresses].

## Security and Responsible Disclosure

If you discover a security vulnerability, please do not disclose it publicly to avoid malicious use. Immediately contact us at [security contact email address] with all details, including steps to reproduce and the vulnerable component. 

We will acknowledge your responsible disclosure and address the vulnerability in a secure manner.

## Releases Process

New releases occur regularly, and typically involve merging `develop` into `main`. A new tag is added using the semantic versioning scheme (Major.Minor.Patch ). 

All release notes, are updated at [link to the release notes]. 

## Recognition

All contributors are listed in our ` contributors ` file and are acknowledged in release notes. Contributions are appreciated.

## Contributor License Agreement (CLA)

Please review and sign this CLA: [link to CLA]. This agreement allows us to use your contributions in the software while ensuring appropriate copyright ownership and usage rights. 

## Resources and References 

For more style guidelines, refer to [ PEP 8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) for Python or [ Google Style Guides](https://google.github.io/styleguide/) for general programming standards. Also, refer to official test framework docs for our project. 

Remember that our community is collaborative and always willing to learn. Please feel free to engage with our community. Thank you for considering contributing! Enjoy working alongside your fellow developers. We are all happy to see and welcome your suggestions or any kind of assistance! Let’s build [ Your Software Project] to be a wonderful software that can help everyone. Let’s build [ Your Software Project] together ! Thank you! And have fun while creating the best software! Have some fun !

**Enjoy your contribution and we're excited to see your work and welcome your ideas! Thank you! And have some fun!** Let’s all work together for a greater software. Let’s all have fun and create a fantastic contribution! Let’s all have some fun and welcome your ideas. Let’s build it together ! Have some fun! Thanks !